.pc
.TH UNSCROLL 1 "March 2010" "0.1"
.SH NAME
unscroll \- reformat unfortunately shaped pdf files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unscroll
[ options ]
.I infile
.I outfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B unscroll
is a program to take a pdf file which is the "wrong shape" and output
one that's a more useful shape to print.
.PP
This was inspired by the files you create with the Starboard
interactive whiteboard software, which are laid out on "a4" pages as
follows.
.PP
          /---------------\\
          |               |
          |               |
          |     #####     |
          |     #####     |
          |     #####     |
          |     #####     |
          |     #####     |
          |     #####     |
          |     #####     |
          \\---------------/
.PP
This is useless for printing since everything's tiny and there's miles
of whitespace everywhere. Fortunately, there are gaps in the black
stuff, since it's actually lines of text, so it's possible to break it
up and allocate it to pages more usefully.
.PP
unscroll searches for rectangular hunks of non-white and uses a simple
word-wrap algorithm to distribute them among more pages, hopefully
ending up with much better use of the available space.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\ \fIn\fP,\ \fB\-\-dpi\fP=\fIn\fP
Render the input pdf files at the given resolution. A large value of
the parameter will cause the program to take longer, but the output
file might be higher quality. Fiddling with the \fB\-Q\fP option may
allow a high dpi without a massive file. The default is 150.
.TP
\fB\-Q\ \fIn\fP,\ \fB\-\-quality\fP=\fIn\fP
The output pdf file consists of jpeg images. Ask libjpeg to render
them with the given quality (should be an integer between 0 and
100). A small number will cause lots of compression artefacts to
appear in the output file, but the file will be smaller. The default
is 75.
.TP
\fB\-s\ \fIstr\fP,\ \fB\-\-papersize\fP=\fIstr\fP
Choose the paper size of the output pdf. If this is not given, it will
default to whatever the default chosen by libpaper is (probably
\fIletter\fP or \fIa4\fP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Default invocation with no options given:
\fBunscroll\fP in.pdf out.pdf
.PP
Read the file at 400 dpi, but use a low jpeg quality of 20% to reduce
the output file size. Output to C4 paper:
.RS
\fBunscroll\fP \-d 400 \-Q 20 \-s C4 in.pdf out.pdf
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Rupert Swarbrick (rswarbrick at gmail.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR papersize (5)
